# Infinite Dungeon

A (relatively) system-agnostic character-funnel roguelite system for TTRPGs, but also a collection of notes from the
first attempts at running this system.

For the moment, if you are a part of any of my (jfred's) games, please _do not continue reading anything in this repo_.
At some point you'll get to see it, but everything is in one place right now and 

I prefer to work with my garage door open, If you chose to be spoiled I cannot stop you, but don't ruin it for anyone else,
and if I catch y'all snooping I'll shut the door again.

## Campaign

### Prologue: Monster Hunting

You are a 9th level adventurer; you hunt monsters. Maybe you work alone, maybe you know some of your future compatriots
already, by reputation or otherwise. You live on a planet called _Eret_, a world not dissimilar from our own, similar
geography, though highly dissimilar history and politics. On _Eret_, magic never left the world as it did on Earth. This
resulted in profound changes in social, political, and religious development. Of _course_ the gods existed, they
_literally showed up_ from time to time. Why invent cars and trains and international logistics when you can just use
_Send_ and _Teleport_ and whatever other spell makes sense. It is said that, "Any sufficiently advanced technology is
indistinguishable from magic", but the converse is also true -- any sufficiently arcane magic is indistinguishable from
technology.

It is impossible to fully stop the progress of either, but one may and often does dominate the other. So in this world,
technology has only made it to the late 19th/early 20th century or so. The aethestic of an arcane-industrial complex
leading a sort of magical industrial revolution. You have nothing to lose but your vorpal chains, folks.

You find yourself glommed together with a group of other adventurers, you've been having some lousy luck -- contracts
appropriate to your ability (and more importantly, sufficient to be worth the expense of the endeavor) have been few and
far between. You're down to your last few ducats when you hear of a crazy man railing about some ancient Demon Queen.
Sounds like it's right up your alley.


## Setting/System

ID is both a setting, system, and the name of the campaign I'm using to build that setting. It's very confusing.

A lot of the work here is about integrating a bunch of other source books into the lore of the custom setting. As such,
I believe all the use of terms, concepts, and other elements of those other source books are incorporated here in a
manner compliant with Fair Use, all the work contained in this repo over which I have right to share is shared under the
terms of CC-BY-SA-NC, or by the license specified in LICENSE if that file exists, or by more restrictive license called
out in the file itself or by name in the LICENSE file.

If you are an author of the source books I incorporate, and you see something you'd prefer I not reference, use, or
otherwise share _in this repo_, please create an issue so that I can address your concern efficiently.

## Repo Rules

1. Names of files should be all lower-case with hyphens instead of spaces.
    - Some exception may be made as in the case of `gelatinous-cUber` to help avoid mispronounciation at a glance.
2. Markdown ends in `.md`, not `.mkd`
3. Cited, included, or referenced works should be added to REFERENCES, ideally with backlinking but this is not a
   requirement.
