> You enter a part of the dungeon which is full of people, all harmless looking, in tattered clothing, clearly malnourished. You see commotion about 100m away where it seems a number of people are gathered around a man and a collection of arms and armaments.
> The man notices the party and gestures for them to come to him, hands open in a welcoming gesture. "I am Joshua, the leader of this place. Don't take this the wrong way, but it's been a long time since we've seen any friendly faces -- mostly just monsters down here, who are you?"

Joshua was an adventurer, but when his party was killed in another accident^[you can roll another encounter and use it as a description of what killed his party], he got lost in the dungeon, and eventually ran into others who were in the same predicament, stuck in the dungeon with no way out. Many were adventurers, some were civilians, some where (horrifyingly) experiments of the Mad Wizard. Joshua gathered them together in this large part of the dungeon which serves as a staging area, he goes out to forage for supplies with the able-bodied folks there, and will ask the players for help getting supplies or getting people out. The players can give him access to their maps, rations from their supplies, or portal charges to get some of the worse-off out, but the nature of the _Infinite Dungeon_ is such that exfiltrating folks en masse will take some special tools, Joshua knows where they are (they're with the next boss encounter) and if the players talk to him about getting everyone topside he'll lay out a plan and help them in the next boss encounter.

> Listen, I've run into $THE_BOSS a couple times on scavenging runs, shit is getting scarce around here and I know that $THE_BOSS has the stuff I need to get a portal going that can get us all topside. I'm not one for risking lives that don't need risking, I pray to the gods to keep everyone here safe till we get out -- but thoughts and prayers don't kill monsters -- we can't expect the gods to do all the work. Here's what I'm thinking.

If the players succeed, Joshua gets the stuff he needs, gets back to town, and establishes a refugee camp which will give the players resources periodically at runner's discretion. If they do not succeed, roll 1d20, on a 15+, Joshua survives and can be encountered again. If not, mark this card, and use the alternate description below to describe this room.

> You enter a part of the dungeon which is full of the decaying corpses of hundreds of people. Their clothing in tatters, their bodies emaciated and rotting. Something truly terrible happened here. The stench is overwhelming. You want to leave immediately.

On entry to this alternate version of the room, all good or neutral aligned players must make a hard Constitution Save or take some sickness points (stress, poison, exhaustion, something like), if they remain in the room, they must make that save periodically, eventually with disadvantage. Evil aligned players may be informed that while they don't find the place particularly unsettling, they can 'fake' the save with a Performance or other related check. Whether this is done in secret is up to the runner's discretion