# Playtesting

We are going to try a bunch of different systems, the goal of ID is to be a meta-system, it's more about making chargen
more fun, and I want it to be fun with respect to lots of systems. I'll try not to skip around too much, but the goal is
to go through a few systems over time, starting with 5e.

Each playtest will be a self-contained instance of the Dungeon, after each playtest all 'lore' will be reset, all prior
lore is decanonized and only lore I re-introduce for that playtest will be valid. Similarly, all costs, available
upgrades, etc will be reset and all prior versions are decanonized.

tl;dr -- each playtest is a self-contained instance of the game, setting, and everything, and between tests nothing is
retained.

## Initial Playtest

The goal of this is going to be to flesh out the core 'Generic Chargen' system, and to test out the initial 'Raid'
environment, and work out a core gameplay environment. There are basically these options available to the player at the
outset:

1. A Small, low-danger hexcrawl around Iskavi, mostly for later use.
2. Directions to the Tower which is nearby
3. Directions to Maltidas which is next door.

Players will be explicitly directed to the tower and raid for this, run the intro mode, maybe they die and you do the
15m of fame thing. At this point we name the character via a clan trait: "Progenitor of the Clan" or whatever, and they
get their 15m and roll a new character.

Players can now jump to run the intro raid again until they beat it, or if they want to adventure around the woods they
can stumble into the Garden of Ynn, which they'll be way underleveled for but it can have better loot.

I'll let players pick their poison from there and come up with strategies to defeat the raid; ideally the intro mode
shouldn't take long and I can get them to a reasonable fame level. Progress until they beat normal, then explain the
heroic mode and suggest they look for some lore about how to further expand the dungeon in the Stygian Library (or just
point them to the GoY if they haven't found it yet. (Maybe the end boss drops a fame item which has the Mad Wizard's
Mark on it, something that Mithrandir would want to see, Nik can direct them, and Mithrandir can give them a quest to
find a book, but the party will have to go to the Stygian Library.

If they easily beat the dungeon on normal, then offer heroic right away and we'll need to tune up the encounter by a
step, likely.

I suspect this'll run a few sessions and ideally they find a route to a couple levels and I can use that as a benchmark.

I've set up the foundry scenes for the hex crawl part like this:

```

Iskavi/
    Environments/
        Forest/
        Hills/
        Mountains and Caves/
        Open Areas/
        Structures/
    Landmarks/
        The Tower
        Matilda's
        The PF

```

As the players find the various landmarks, Iskavi will become more of a point crawl. Especially after the players have a
level or two and some fame, people will mostly leave them alone until Iskavi grows as a settlement. The other
environments are for prepped battlemaps for each environment, I'll also have a blank grid ready for use, I can populate
these when I find good maps or make them or w/e.

I expect there will be other hexcrawls I'll want to run, and I want the battlemaps I use to have a cohesive feeling, I
plan to do a bunch w/ Dungeon Alchemist, and I think I'm going to try to do the LotR thing and just give any hexcrawl an
overall color. Iskavi will probably be all golden hour-y Shire vibes.

Players should be instructed prior to the first session to roll three characters using a hard iron roll. characters must
be human. All other stats are straight, in order, 3d6 or a single die for class, background, etc. They shouldn't name
the characters, but they should familiarize themselves with their skill set, which should be pretty limited at level
one. They should probably pick the one they like the _least_ to play with first.


Normal Item system for 5e for this, when I get to alternative systems I'll get to alternative systems.

