
Players identify some Objective, they work with the GM to identify the Requirements in order to fulfill the objective, then the Players make a plan on how to accomplish the objective, and the GM adjudicates how an attempt at the plan goes.

As an example:

1. A party of four players, Rogue, Wizard, Fighter, Cleric, all decide that they want to enter yonder Dungeon and retrieve it's loot.
2. The GM describes that, as seasoned adventurers, they know they must first Scout the dungeon, and asks how they want to do that.
3. The party rogue suggests they sneak around, the Wizard suggests he uses a magic floating eyeball; the GM sets a Project for the party to accomplish, over a couple days, the party scouts the dungeon and finds two entrances, one guarded by a small group of goblins, the other a narrow tunnel in the side that is seemingly unguarded, and leads up to the main tower.
4. The party decides to attempt the tunnel entrance, the GM asks how they plan to approach unnoticed, the cleric invokes their patron to get a pass-without-trace effect, they arrive at the entrance. The Fighter's passive perception notices a trap, the rogue defuses, the rest of the dungeon continues until they complete it, defeating the boss and gaining the loot of Ducats, Vesper, and Fame.

The objective may be large, it may be nebulous, it may have unknown or arbitrary effects on the game.

The loop is simply a high level description of the process of negotiating the story with the GM. The Player's job is to have objectives, drawn from their [[02. Orders#BIGs|Beliefs, Interests, and Goals]], the GM's job is to help _reify_ those objectives into specific actions and skill checks. The GM is also responsible for providing _tinder_ to the players by seeding targets of interest based on the Player's aforementioned BIGs; as well as providing recurring targets to test characters against.

Infinite Dungeon is meant to be played in an open, explorable world; the GM should place the players in the world such that they can always move toward their goals.