# The Game

_Infinite Dungeon_ is a game and game setting for running multiple campaigns across multiple characters. It provides tools to manage the _power economy_ of the game. It is structured as an addon ruleset that is relatively agnostic, but also comes with a bespoke, very lightweight resolution and character creation mechanic.

The game encourages a high-lethality style of play by pushing the persistence "back" to the character _creation_ phase, rather than the character _advancement_ phase. It pushes almost all progression resources to be _diegetic_ (meaning they are literal objects in the world), and the expectation is that players will strategize how to both hone their character creation to support their concept, and how to stockpile resources to build a specific version of the character they want.

We'll play to find out how these [[02. Orders|"Orders"]] evolve and grow towards achieving their interests over the course of multiple adventures and campaigns. GMs use the same underlying system to help manage and expand the setting they build, up to and including mechanics for building BBEGs, their Lieutenants, and other factions within the world at large.

The game is designed to provide an open world, complete with hex, point, and depth-crawling adventures; and also adding "Repeatable, Action-oriented, Interesting Dungeons", or [[07. Raids|Raids]], which are used as gates to new content. 
# The Setting

_Infinite Dungeon_ is set canonically in _Upper Carpathia_ a fictional eastern European region of _Eret_. Eret is an alternate timeline of our own reality, the geography is the same, many of the players and powers are the same, but distinct from our reality, Magic never faded from the world. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic, and any sufficiently arcane magic is indistinguishable from technology; in this world, magic has replaced the need for much of the technological development, and while it is the equivalent of our own Earth year of 2025, the technology of the world is only just entering the high point of (magical) industrialization. Machines made of metal, powered by [[04. Loot#Vesper|raw magical energy]], and used for dark purposes both mundane (exploitation, wage-slavery, and general oppression by the bourgeois class of mages and bureaucrats) and magical (Mad wizards, for instance, standing up towers and doing dark deeds).

Common people mostly live in a sort of benign, accepted fear of the reality of magic. Magic concentrates power, and occasionally it leads to extremely powerful people who achieve a sort of sovereignty-by-magical-aptitude, where governments and nations must reckon with the sheer ability of what are effectively walking weapons of mass destruction. Some evidence points to the use of [[04. Loot#Vesper|Vesper]] -- that raw magical energy -- as a foundational cause of insanity, dissociation, and megalomania. It makes sense that average people look on those who choose a life of adventure -- willingly going into the homes and holdings of aforementioned walking WMDs for the purposes of larceny -- as equivalently dangerous and mad.

The primary unit of political affiliation is the [[02. Orders|"Order"]], large ones, such as the Freemasons, the Catholic Pantheon, the various governmental organizations such as the Irish Union, the French Empire, the Russian Tsardom, and the Carpathian Collective (of which Upper Carpathia is a part) form from many smaller orders joining together to form entities that, in aggregate, rival the power of some of the most powerful of the various individual Wizards, Sorcerers, Warlocks, Witches, Magi, and other entities aforementioned. 
# The Players

## Orders

Players will be in control of one or more (at their discretion) of these orders of their own design. These various Orders will be used to create _characters_, which are individual agents seeking to achieve an Order's [[02. Orders#Goals|goals]], embody their [[02. Orders#Beliefs|beliefs]],  or otherwise further their [[02. Orders#Interests|interests]].
## Characters

For a brand new Order, with no traits, characters are generated using a GM provided methodology for the system in use. Generally this will be a fairly draconian 'Iron Roll' style generation -- trying to ensure that the initial characters skew _much_ weaker than the system generally intends. Since [[04. Loot|Fame]] is accrued only at character death, the weakness of these characters is a feature, as it serves to inject fame in small doses very quickly until the chargen process 'levels up' the underlying character to meet the challenge presented to it. A core adage of _Infinite Dungeon_ is "Get Rich _and_ Die Trying", what 'rich' means is largely up to the player.
# Game Flow

Games work largely as they typically do, players build characters using the specific mechanics provided to them by the relevant Order, they take on challenges and defeat encounters, earning Ducats, Vesper, and importantly, Fame. They then use these resources to better their characters, and critically, they will find ways of pooling, managing, and hoarding these resources to make _better_ characters later on. A player might stock up liters and liters of Vesper over the course of a dozen weak characters, slowly building up their order until they can make a single, very powerful character that they can instantly level up several times. They can hoard Ducats and use it to buy up powerful gear to outfit their supersoldier, and then they can throw that extremely powerful character at an extremely difficult challenge and -- if they win -- gain many more resources to further empower themselves.