The world is populated by many _Orders_. An Order is a group that exists over time. Real world examples of 'Orders' in this sense may be things like the Democratic Party of the United States, the Freemasons, the Catholic Church or any of it's sub orders, a large extended family (like a Royal house), or any other collection of people who share some underlying _Beliefs_, _Interests_, and _Goals_ ("BIG"s). Members of an Order also share _Traits_, which are specific alterations to character generation that you and the GM work out. These traits are the primary method by which you'll improve the base kinds of characters you create. In order to unlock these traits, you'll need to pursue your BIGs, and when you _commit to your beliefs_, _further the interests of your Order_, or _accomplish a Goal_, you'll be rewarded according to the difficulty of what you have done.

# BIGs

Let's design a coven of eco-conscious witches. They want to prevent the ongoing industrialization in Eret and prevent the destruction of the natural landscape. They are deeply concerned with maintaining ecosystems, preserving wildlife -- both flora and fauna, but mostly flora -- and generally 'rewilding' all the areas 'ruined' by such reckless 'progress'. They simply call themselves "Keepers of the Garden" and members are "Hedge-witch(es)".
## Beliefs

An order has some number of specific beliefs about how the world _should_ be. These should be general and broad statements of fact that your characters _believe_ this is the refrain they will keep singing throughout their -- likely short -- life, so make them catchy. They will be the most frequent source of [[03. Vesper, Ducats, and Fame|Fame]] you receive. You can have as many of these as you like, but the GM is the arbiter of whether or not you're cheesing, so don't cheese.

Our order has the following beliefs:

1. The world is best when most of it is left to wilderness and undisturbed.
2. Planting a seed never hurt anyone, building machines does more often than not.
## Interests

An interest is a more specific direction that the order wishes to move. These should be "Should" statements as well, but instead of statements about the world-at-large, these are about what the order _wants_. Interests for nations might be "to expand territory", for our Coven, it's:

1. Rewild Eret.
2. Stymie the Ruination.
3. Preserve Natural Life

Beliefs are the most _frequently_ rewarded, but Interests help create the opportunities to express those beliefs, and amplify the rewards -- if you commit to your beliefs while simultaneously advancing an interest, the rewards will be much greater.
## Goals

Goals are the easiest to explain -- they are specific, measurable, actionable, relevant, and threat-bound missions that your Order wants to achieve to advance it's Interests. It has sent _your current character_ on a mission to further these goals. Remember, these goals are SMART:

- Specific: It should be unambiguous what the goal is, why the order wants it, and how they plan to go about getting it (in broad strokes)
- Measurable: It should be unambiguous whether or not the goal is accomplished or failed. Any goal not accomplished is failed, it may be failed-with-prejudice (meaning that the goal _can no longer be achieved_), or without.
- Actionable: It should be clear how the _characters_ of the order will be able to _do_ stuff to work towards achieving the goal
- Relevant: The goal should be related to the Beliefs or Interests of the Order
- Threat-bound: There should be something threatening the ability to achieve the goal. This may be Time -- "If we don't achieve X within 100 game-days, we'll be unable to accomplish it!", a rival, etc.

Accomplishing goals is _rare_, so set your sights high, but these will be the target at which your characters will be aimed as you launch them like so many darts.

For our Coven, they have, at present, one goal:

1. Destroy the BBEG's Evil Factory of Evilness, contained within his Tower, before it finishes producing whatever it's trying to produce.

## Schisms

BIGs are how you communicate what your Order is _for_. This will help the GM build in opportunities for you to play your characters the way you want them played. Different characters can have different takes on what the beliefs and interests of the order are, or even in how best to accomplish goals. As you play, it may make sense to split an order on ideological lines, when this happens, a Schism occurs, and the two new orders are created with opposing beliefs, interests, or goals. They may align in some parts but not others; they may treat each other as simply of differing opinion or as more fundamentally heretical. The choice is yours.

Our Coven hasn't had a Schism -- or so they say, secretly, a group of Hedge-witches have founded the Green Circle, a ecoterrorist group using unorthodox and unethical tactics to try to stop the further industrialization of the planet. They hold the same beliefs as the Keepers, but they add a belief that "The Keepers are too concerned with avoiding bloodshed."
# Traits

Traits are the point of Orders, these are _arbitrary tweaks_ you want to make to your character generation process. If you want additional die, or control over where die are spent, or to be able to choose a specific class, or to have a specific starting feat, or to use a bit of homebrew (borrowed or self-built). You and your GM will follow this process:

1. You propose a trait
2. GM assigns an _initial_ cost and a _activation_ cost (in minutes of [[03. Vesper, Ducats, and Fame|Fame]])
3. You negotiate the costs with the GM. You can add drawbacks, they can require specific quests to be completed, but ultimately they will set a price, and you can either accept it or try again. If a GM continually rejects a specific feature, you may bring it to the table for a final vote, 2/3rd majority.
4. Once you've accepted the costs, you pay the `initial` cost after meeting any additional requirements imposed by your GM (e.g., completion of quest, etc).

The first time you gain a trait, the activation is free, subsequent characters who want to use the trait will need to pay the activation cost. Each time the activation cost is paid, at the GMs discretion, it may double. The GM is also free to remove or lower this cost at their leisure, they _may not_ raise the cost except through activation. If you manage to slip one by the GM, by god you have a right to use it a few times so they learn.

Activation cost is an anti-cheese mechanism, so the GM should generally try to reduce it to the smallest acceptable value. Fame spent on traits is not destroyed, it returns to the GM's account, and is then used to prepare more and/or higher difficulty content.