_Infinite Dungeon_ tries to make progression more diegetic. That means that you will have a bit more currency to track, and loot management is more of a minigame you will need to solve amongst and between your current party. Money is heavy, XP is heavy, Fame comes in the form of the retrieval of objects of note from the clutches of monsters and dungeons and kings and demons -- you progress through effort, and that effort is often physically carrying your progress back to a safe place where you can put it to work.
# Ducats

Ducats are the generic name for money, there are lots of different kinds of money in the world(s) in and around the _Infinite Dungeon_, but they all have some conversion back to Ducats. The canonical mapping is below:

| ID                        | D&D 5e           |     |
| ------------------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| 1d ("Ducat")              | 1gp ("Gold")     |     |
| 0.10d ("Dime")            | 1sp ("Silver")   |     |
| 0.01d ("Penny")           | 1cp ("Copper")   |     |
| 10d ("Tenducat"/"Tendie") | 1pp ("Platinum") |     |
In _Infinite Dungeon_, all coins weigh 2.5g/each, no matter the denomination. Currency from other supplements are magically and automatically converted to and from ducats at whatever the current conversion rate is. Your GM may tweak those rates to keep things balanced with whatever content they are introducing into the game.
# Vesper

Vesper is diegetic XP. It's used for more than XP is typically used for, and you can store it. It's reactive, like nitroglycerin, and needs to be store in specially made containers. It is liquid at room temperature, does not freeze at any achievable temperature (magic or mundane), and explodes if exposed to high heat or flame. The force of the blast of 1L of Vesper is equivalent to a 3rd level fireball in 5e, 2L equivalent to 2 3rd level fireballs, etc.

1ml of Vesper, taken orally, provides the character with 1XP of advancement. Vesper is also used in the creation of Potions, Scrolls, Wands, and other magical items. It is valuable in trade, often to the exclusion of Ducats, and is also useful for the creation of improvised explosive devices.
# Fame


----


[[FameVesperDucats-v0.1.pdf]]