_Infinite Dungeon_ tries to make progression more diegetic. That means that you will have a bit more currency to track, and loot management is more of a minigame you will need to solve amongst and between your current party. Money is heavy, XP is heavy, Fame comes in the form of the retrieval of objects of note from the clutches of monsters and dungeons and kings and demons -- you progress through effort, and that effort is often physically carrying your progress back to a safe place where you can put it to work.
# Ducats

Ducats are the generic name for money, there are lots of different kinds of money in the world(s) in and around the _Infinite Dungeon_, but they all have some conversion back to Ducats. The canonical mapping is below:

| ID                        | D&D 5e           |     |
| ------------------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| 1d ("Ducat")              | 1gp ("Gold")     |     |
| 0.10d ("Dime")            | 1sp ("Silver")   |     |
| 0.01d ("Penny")           | 1cp ("Copper")   |     |
| 10d ("Tenducat"/"Tendie") | 1pp ("Platinum") |     |
In _Infinite Dungeon_, all coins weigh 2.5g/each, no matter the denomination. Currency from other supplements are magically and automatically converted to and from ducats at whatever the current conversion rate is. Your GM may tweak those rates to keep things balanced with whatever content they are introducing into the game.
# Vesper

Vesper is diegetic XP. It's used for more than XP is typically used for, and you can store it. It's reactive, like nitroglycerin, and needs to be store in specially made containers. It is liquid at room temperature, does not freeze at any achievable temperature (magic or mundane), and explodes if exposed to high heat or flame. The force of the blast of 1L of Vesper is equivalent to a 3rd level fireball in 5e, 2L equivalent to 2 3rd level fireballs, etc.

1ml of Vesper, taken orally, provides the character with 1XP of advancement. Vesper is also used in the creation of Potions, Scrolls, Wands, and other magical items. It is valuable in trade, often to the exclusion of Ducats, and is also useful for the creation of improvised explosive devices.
# Fame

Fame has no equivalent as far as I know in other TTRPGs; perhaps _Artha_, from _Burning Wheel_ is the closest analog. The various points (Fate, Persona, Deeds) can be spent to improve your character, avoid danger, and otherwise provide large bonuses and changes to your character. I like this idea, but the cost in BW is that your character becomes a sort of sacred thing -- it's so hard to make and progress, that a character death has to be made much, much more rare.

Fame is somewhat messier. There is only one kind of fame, it's measured in minutes, and it comes in the form of small, otherwise useless tchotchky's. These small objects fill up space in your inventory, but if you can get them back to the right people, they will spread your legend far and wide, earning you some amount of _Fame._

As a resource, Fame can be used to bypass or ease skill checks, grant yourself a bonus, escape an unavoidable fate, or whatever else you can convince your GM to let you do. You can also use Fame to improve your character generation process by buying new [[02. Orders|Traits for your Order]].
# Loot

Regular loot will also come up; it may be worth more than just Ducats, though -- different NPCs may offer different combinations of currency for different objects. A Wizard may offer Vesper for a rare Tome, but a Museum might offer a small amount of Fame. Barter for the best deal.

```ad-warning

FUTURE PLANS:

Infinite Dungeon will be experimenting with different loot management systems, e.g., a slotbased/paperdoll style approach. Watch this space.

```

