Coin is simple, there is a single unit of currency, the 'Ducat', and they are small coins banded in steel containing
approximately 10 grams in total weight. It is the standard unit of currency, there also exist bank notes for extremely large
amounts of currency, but these are seldom seen by normal folk. Ducats are the main currency, because of the prevalence
of magic purses, which can contain any amount of physical coin, and even reduce the weight of that coin. A Standard
Magic Purse does not reduce the weight of the coin, but only takes up a 1x1 slot.

Ducats contain a fixed amount of real gold, which is important because it's a pain in the ass to get gold, since you
have to create equivalent amount Philosopher's Stone and lead (or manufacture it from it's constituents, it's own
trial). The politics of this reality are as the politics of any reality -- mostly about money and who controls it.
Powerful Magic using entities are States unto themselves, old monarchies and partially familiar religious orders all
need to contend with both each other and these major powers. Part of the current detente that is maintained is partially
maintained _through_ the money, as it provides these powerful entities a resource that is commonly needed for most
spells and a completely unfeasible thing to do at small scale, but easy to do at a national scale. This Magical
Industrialism relies on the manufacture of real gold, which is then contained in these small steel alloy rings, for the
average individual, the steel provides a fixed value of a useful metal, the gold interior is incidental as it is
directly manufactured by the State Alchemical Mint. For Magic Users, the gold is a vital reagant in many spells and the
steel is equally irrelevant, both parties can, in principle redeem these coins for their valuable parts and 'trade in'
the non-valuable parts whenever they need, where they are recycled. In the majority case, civilian individuals use these
as simple currency, and would regard the presence of hollowed out coins as a sign of extreme danger, as it indicates
someone is doing magic.

For Magic users, there is an understanding that while the process of returning these empties is 'required', no one
polices the practice. However, it does have the benefit for some retired or otherwise generally passive magic users to
interact with society at large and acts as something of a check on their power, as their often vast fortunes are tied up
in what is techinically insolvent money.

No one bothers to press the issue as the result would certainly involve some very dangerous fireworks.
