# The Loop

_Infinite Dungeon_ is a system that tries to gamify the act of homebrew. Fundamentally, TTRPGs are a feedback loop, a GM describes a scene, players describe their actions in that context, the GM interprets their actions via some system of rules, and describes the result. Homebrew happens when the system of rules is insufficient, unpleasant, or tedious. _Infinite Dungeon_ tries to build a method by which arbitrary rule changes can be introduced incrementally by all players at the table (GM and Players), and instead places the role of the GM and the Table as the primary regulator of these interactions. It tries to do so in a way that _also_ provides the GM resources to help tell balanced stories in the context of these rule changes. This is not an easy task, but there are already systems that do this kind of thing expertly, inflationary systems like in _World of Warcraft_, _Path of Exile_, and similar games with regular 'resets' to the item power levels.

To understand how to use the rules of _Infinite Dungeon_, as a player, you're going to want to read through this manual once, you don't need to internalize the mechanics, just try to get the gist. Then spend some time thinking about your [order's Beliefs, Instincts, and Goals](02.%20Orders.md). If you're starting from scratch, your GM will prepare a session 0 where you'll actually be playing the founding characters of your Order, so have an idea in mind for what that founding character will be called, and maybe what you want to name your first Order. 

_Infinite Dungeon_ is intended to be played in an open, explorable world, with a 'West Marches' mindset. Players should think about how _they_ want to pursue their own goals, and the GM is responsible for helping players pursue those goals, and to find the challenges that will make progress towards those goals rewarding and fun.