# Travel
## Hexcrawling
### Maps and Scales

#### Units

The primary unit of measurement is a League, which is the size of a single hex in an _Area_. A party can easily cover 8 leagues (about 24mi or 40km) in a single day on good terrain or on roads, but poor conditions, poor terrain, or bad luck can result in your party taking much longer, or even [#Getting Lost](#Getting%20Lost), which will leave you off course.

The world is a big place, we are playing in a small part of it, but we may visit others. These are points in a big point-crawl map, each point of which is a _Region_. A Region is a large hexmap showing the overall terrain of a large region. Each hex in this map is 30mi, 50km, or 10 leagues across. The terrain shown in each hex is the majority terrain of the underlying _Area_.  An Area is smaller hexmap showing a more detailed view of the local terrain. You'll find individual towns, dwellings, dungeons, and so on on this map.
### Travel Times

One always travels an entire hex, even at the Regional scale. Follow the 'Entering a hex' rule from below. When exploring an area, use the area column, you are likely to explore multiple hexes per day. When moving on the World-map (region-by-region), you'll _calculate your total travel time_, your GM will determine whether you get lost. If you do, they'll select a random spot along the path, you'll do a 'getting lost' encounter, and then be returned to the world map at your destination. Getting lost only happens once, generally, at this scale. For exceptionally long trips, the GM should break it up into 'Legs' between major cities/etc.

| Terrain Type          | Travel time (Region) | Travel Time (Area) |
| --------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| Flat, open terrain    | 10h                  | 1h                 |
| Flat, hostile terrain | 20h                  | 2h                 |
| Lightly Forested      | 20h                  | 2h                 |
| Dense Forest/Jungle   | 40h                  | 4h                 |
| Swamp/Bog             | 40h                  | 4h                 |
| Hills                 | 40h                  | 4h                 |
| Mountains             | 80h                  | 8h                 |
| has Road?             | /2 time, minimum 1h  | ibid               |
## Navigating Hexes

### Entering

The party must always have a character _Scouting_.

The _Scout_ is responsible for making the initial Navigation check. This check may be any appropriate skill used by the Scout to navigate. The Scout is responsible for determining the party direction and while it is encouraged that they lead the party to a consensus location, only the GM and Scout communicate about the actual direction of the party and do so via secret message.

The Navigation check is done against a hidden DC set by the GM, it should correspond to how much the players know about the area, it's relative danger, etc. Generally less than DC20, more than DC10.

The party _should_ have a _Cartographer_, who is responsible for maintaining a map. The GM map _is not provided_ to players until they have _fully_ tamed an area hex (completing a significant number of quests/activities, etc).

When entering a new, unexplored Area from a Region, roll a Navigation check as normal, but place the party randomly inside a new Area map. It's good to have a couple of these keyed and at the ready, but you can always improvise things if you like. When they fail the navigation check, put them in a predicament immediately.
### Exploring

```ad-warning

WIP

```

### Resting

```ad-note

This is heavily inspired by Mystic Arts' rules, with a bunch of tweaks by me.

```

A short rest can be taken once every 24 hours; it takes 8 hours. 6 hours must be spent sleeping, 2 hours can be for any light activity (a watch, chores, etc, no [](06.%20Downtime.md#Projects|Projects) except where allowed by the GM).

A long rest can only be done by taking:

1. 3 consecutive short rests in the same location with no interruption.
2. Resting in a known Safe Zone

Rests (short or long) are interrupted when:

1. You Roll Initiative for any reason
2. Casting a non-cantrip spell
3. Taking damage

Benefits from a rest apply _after the rest has been completed_, if you are interrupted, _you have not completed the rest_ and thus _receive no benefits_.
### Getting Lost

#### Area Hexes

When the Scout fails the navigation check, they may get lost. The GM _will not tell you_ that you are lost, but they will provide hints and indications.
#### Region Hexes

Getting lost on the Region-level map works slightly differently. You get lost _within the area hex_, the GM will generate one as necessary. Your GM will present an obstacle that must be resolved or avoided within the area you land, normal Area-level rules apply. Alternately, the GM may instead _tax the party_ by requiring additional rolls on their various [[Condition Die]].
### Trailblazing

When players arrive in a square they have been before, make a mark. Starting at DC20, subtract the number of marks and compare against passive perception. If there are notable features, or if a player remarks on notable features, subtract additional values from the DC. When the DC is <5, someone recognizes the hex, and the players simply know the area well enough to not need to navigate. All travel in this hex is 25% quicker. Does not stack with roads.

Once players have explored a sufficient percentage of the map thoroughly, and the GM no longer wants to place new items there, the official, GM maintained map can and should be used, and all travel in this area should be made free and fast, accounting only time. The players can consider the area 'conquered' or 'made safe' or whatever they like. No sense tracking the old expansions when there is new stuff to do elsewhere.
## Resources

There are two resources while crawling, time and provisions.

There are 24 hours in a day, this is split into 8 hour chunks. One of those chunks must be spent resting (or else take a point of Exhaustion or similar mechanic). 8 hours is generally the most that can be spent exploring before Exhaustion occurs, of the remaining 8 hours, 4 are spent doing daily personal activities (eating, making camp, general chores). The remaining time is free.

Players can spend any unspent time on any [Projects](Projects) they might have. Additionally they can spend time Foraging for Provisions, making an appropriate skill check. On a success, you cannot fail your provision check, on a fail, nothing happens.

Every day you must roll your [Provisions Die](Provisions%20Die). Well-equipped players start with a d10 provision die, and may spend extra foraging rolls to attempt to upgrade the die, or buy an upgrade from a vendor. The provision die is a [Condition Die](Campaigns/Infinite%20Dungeon/09.%20Subplots/System/Condition%20Die.md) which degrades on a `2-` and upgrades when Foraging/Hunting on a critical success on that roll. A set of provisions may be shared by more than one player, but you _must roll_ for each player using the provisions. You roll provisions twice per day (once in the morning, once in the evening), if your characters skip a meal, CON save against a level of exhaustion. If you have not rolled provisions that day, you must roll your provisions die to see if any provisions have spoiled. See [Fast Travel](Fast%20Travel) for details on provisions when returning to known safe locations.

When your die degrades, you have some spoilt food, ruined equipment, or other narratively appropriate thing happen.
## Fast Travel

Major locations, connected by roads to an existing point on the fast travel map, provides a fast travel option once visited. Fast Travel still triggers rolls a roll on the ration die per player, but only `1 + the number of leagues traveling without a road / 4`. So if you travel across two [](Hexcrawling#Region%20Hexes|Region%20Hexes), one of which is off road, and then travel 3 more [](Hexcrawling#Area%20Hexes|Area%20Hexes), one of which is off road, you've travelled a total of 8 leagues off road, so you must roll `1 + 8 / 4 = 3 ` times on your rations, per player. Fast Travel is only fast for the people playing, not the character, you should calculate travel times. If players later build new roads, acquire vehicles, or develop shortcuts, they are responsible for recalculating the time and provisions, and subject to GM approval, those will be used instead.