In _[Black Hack](https://the-black-hack.jehaisleprintemps.net/english/)_, there is a concept of a 'Usage Die', this die is used frequently within Black Hack to measure a sort of 'abstract resource depletion', and is a delightful and elegant way to manage such a thing in a way that is both quick to manage, but still captures the spirit of the intended mechanic. I use it extensively in _Infinite Dungeon_ to this effect, with a couple of extensions.

In _Black Hack_, Usage die generally only degrade on a `2-` (meaning if you roll and get a 1 or 2, you 'degrade' the die along the relevant dice chain, in _Infinite Dungeon_, this is always the [[Glossary#Standard Dice Chain|Standard Dice Chain]]). Usage die generally do not 'upgrade', and once depleted, the die is discarded.

In _Infinite Dungeon_, usage die are generalized to "Condition Die", which  are specified as `CD<S,D,U>`, where `S` is the size of the die in the chain, `D` is the number below which the die degrades, and `U` the number at which the die upgrades. Condition die may have _conditional_ upgrade/downgrade scenarios, these will be marked with `*` next to the relevant number. `M` will stand for the max value of the die. So:

    CD<d12, 2, M*>

Is a `d12` condition die with caveats that degrades on a `2-` whenever it is rolled, and upgrades on an `M` if the upgrade condition is met.

Condition die generally only have effects based on:

1. What size they are _right now_
2. What size they become after rolling to change them.

The value of the die only matters inasmuch as it moves it along the dice chain.

# Standard Upgrade Condition

If otherwise unspecified, the `*` means "Subject to the following procedure":

1. Identify a relevant skill for upgrading the die (e.g., Foraging/Nature check for a Provisions die)
2. Roll the skill check
3. If critical success, upgrade the die
4. If success, then allow a roll of the CD that will _only upgrade_
5. If failure, roll of the CD that will upgrade _or_ downgrade depending on the result
6. If critical failure, degrade the die.

# Provisions Die

Well-equipped players start with a `CD<d10, 2, M>`, and may spend extra foraging rolls to attempt to upgrade the die, or buy an upgrade from a vendor.  A set of provisions may be shared by more than one player, but you _must roll_ for each player using the provisions. You roll provisions twice per day (once in the morning, once in the evening), if your characters skip a meal, CON save against a level of exhaustion. If you have not rolled provisions that day, you must roll your provisions die to see if any provisions have spoiled.


## Weight and Encumbrance of Provisions

Provisions are an item with base weight:

```ad-warning

These are very rough values for weight/cost.

```

| Size | Slots | Weight | Cost  | Description                                 |
| ---- | ----- | ------ | ----- | ------------------------------------------- |
| d4   | 1x1   | 250g   | 0.50d | Meager Crumbs, enough for a meal, at most.  |
| d6   | 1x1   | 500g   | 1d    | A little, you might stretch it for the day. |
| d8   | 2x1   | 1.5kg  | 3d    | Enough for a day or two                     |
| d10  | 2x3   | 5kg    | 10d   | A week of rations, if managed well.         |
| d12  | 4x4   | 15kg   | 30d   | A couple weeks of rations.                  |
| d20  | 6x6   | 100kg  | 200d  | You could feed an army.                     |
# Wand Charge Die

Wands, Magical Quivers, and other similar items may include a Condition die of arbitrary size to represent the number of items therein. After each use of these items, the condition die must be rolled. For instance, if you have a `Wand of Firebolt CD<d4, 1, ->`, then if you use it in a battle, you roll the condition die immediately.

On a d4 degradation, the item is destroyed or goes dormant if it has an upgrade die.
# Ammo Die

For mundane ammo, players have a single die which is rolled at the end of the scene involving it's use. Ammo is generally a `CD<?,1,M>` die.
# Equipment Die

Equipment is managed via a `CD<d10, 2, M*>`. Equipment is specifically the items in use and on your person, but not your coin
or vesper. This includes items in the backpack, items you're wearing, etc.

When you make significant use of your items, i.e., in combat, or in solving a puzzle, or in returning from an adventure,
roll your Condition die, you do not meet the requirements for an upgrade in this scenario.

A condition die at `d10` offers no benefit or penalty.

When you downgrade, you take a penalty, one of:

-1 to hit
-1 damage dealt
-1 AC

You cannot take the same penalty twice. When you downgrade from a d4 from a d4, destroy a random item on your person, including wielded weapons or worn armor. When you have nothing left,
your condition die resets.

At downtime, you may attempt to repair and restore your armor. Roll against DCMax, on success upgrade your condition die. You may aid this roll via the use of relevant tools or skills or the employ of NPCs or PCs with relevant tools or skills. Upgrading lets you take one of these bonuses on each upgrade above a d10, you may not take the same bonus twice.

+1 to hit
+1 damage dealt
+1 AC

When your condition die downgrades, lose the associated bonus.
# Property

Property will have condition die associated with it to represent the condition of the property. These die have effects specific to the property, and are generally rolled at the end of each session.

# Dire Straights

You may find yourself having to make a usage die roll in _Dire Straights_ -- a situation in which the condition die is unusually taxed. Maybe you overloaded the wand, maybe you got splashed with corrosive acid. In these situations, your GM can make you do one of two things:

1. Roll the next check of this die at disadvantage, meaning you can _only_ downgrade, and you must roll _twice_.
2. Roll a condition check _right now_. Effects occur immediately.

For instance, you might be in a fight with a Gelatinous Ooze. Oh no! It grabbed you and now your stuck inside. You're trapped and the ooze is burning your equipment! Every turn, roll your condition die at the start of your turn until you escape.

Alternatively, you're making your way through a snowy mountain pass, a blizzard rolls through and you need to hunker down to get through it. To survive, you have to lean heavily on your rations, and you'll be in Dire Straights when you next check on your Provisions die.

Finally, you just finished a fight with the Big Bad of this Adventure ("BBotA"), and on no! They got away.  Before you got back to your base, they got there, and conjured a magical storm to attack your town! Hail and Brimstone! Roll _all_ your property condition die in dire straights!
