
Read Aloud (Notes), End of Session.

1. Okay, for the next session, let's talk about what I have planned.
2. I'm working on a system, it's a three-legged thing, and I've got 1 of the legs I want to start testing. I'm going to graft that onto 5e and we're going to test it out.
3. I've sent you a 30ish page document you _do not need to fully understand or internalize_, skim it, get the gist, pay attention mostly to the first two chapters and read the bits about "BIGs" in the section on 'Orders'. We'll go over how it works as we use it.
4. What I need most is you to think about the BIGs for your Order. You'll be playing many characters from this order, by the end of next session we will know which character _founded_ this order (for whatever value of 'founded' you like).
5. The campaign will be a 'West Marches' style campaign. I'm going to run a bimonthly session at the same times, but your characters will have their own interpretations of the BIGs of their order, and you may therefore want to do something to progress a project or pursue one of those goals. You are more than welcome to organize a party and work out a specific session time. I am happy to run literally anything you like, the goal of _Infinite Dungeon_ is to provide a sort of 'Shared Tablematic Universe of Playing Infinite Dungeon', or "STUPID", where lots of different games can run. We'll work out the details of what needs to go into that session and how long I'll need to prepare for it.



```RpgManager4
id: 
  type: "session"
  campaign: "Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md"
  parent: "Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md"
  positionInParent: 5
tasks: 
  - id: "5bf6d618-5eec-41be-b891-d918373c76c5"
    priority: 1
    name: "Complete Session"
    description: "Complete Session 01. Prologue - S4 - TBD"
    type: "creation"
    status: "proposed"
data: 
  sessiondate: "2025-05-29"
```

[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md|]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S4 - TBD/Scenes/Fight DQ.md|]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S4 - TBD/Scenes/Regroup and recover.md|]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S4 - TBD/Scenes/Denouement + Tie In.md|]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S4 - TBD/Scenes/D3 Enters.md|]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S4 - TBD/Scenes/Continue Fight with Anhubet.md|]]