```ad-danger

This is very WIP

```


_Infinite Dungeon_ has three primary resources, all of which are intended to be tracked _in total_. Here's how it's supposed to work.

1. Ducats, Fame, and Vesper, taken together, represent three different kinds of PC _power_.
2. You will inject some amount of Ducats, Fame, and Vesper into the system by giving it to the players.
3. The players will return some amount of Ducats, Fame, and Vesper by spending it in all the various ways they can.

A case study for 5e. Let's say we have 5 players, starting from Iron roll. I suspect my Raid will need a party of Level 5 adventurers, so I know that per player, I want to have at least:

    300 + 900 + 2700 + 6500 = 10,400

or ~10.4L per player, 52L total. This is my initial Vesper Pool. I now can calculate my initial Ducat Pool by injecting 1 Ducat per mL of Vesper (1gp per XP in 5e's case). The conversions may change over time, so in reality it's `Total Vesper * Conversion` for some Conversion value that may be system specific.

So 52,000d, 52L of Vesper. For ease of math, I can round these to 50,000 and 50L.

Every session (or other interval of your choosing), multiply these values by the _power advancement rate_. Usually between 1 and 10%, higher values will more rapidly empower the players, lower will reduce the rate at which power is injected into the system.

When you pay out rewards, you pay out of this pool; if you go past it, you have effectively increases the power advancement rate for that session.

When players pay money back into the system, you reward them with that money _first_. This increases the effective value of vesper/ducats by controlling the supply. When Vesper runs out, you convert ducats back to vesper, when ducats run out, you can convert the other way at the same conversion, but when they all run out, it means you're straining the current power level and you may need to inject more into the system if players aren't advancing/you're having trouble rewarding them.

When things get tight, that's when you reward with Fame, encouraging players towards spending their Vesper and Ducats back into the system.

Simultaneously, prices of common objects should fluctuate over time as well, this is inflationary, you want to multiply the cost of common items by the PAR +/- a few percent. Here advancing faster than PAR will cause the effective cost of things to increase, reducing overall effective power level, albeit more gently. Similarly, increasing by less will cause a net increase in power level.

The goal is to manage the power level of the game while only ever _giving_ the players stuff; never taking it away. To do that you instead control the power level.

Generally:

1. Ducats are the primary "Situational Power" -- they are used to build buildings to give buffs, they create items to use or sell, they should generally not be constrained in supply, but instead the things they build should be naturally impermanent, and when those things are created, the ducats flow back into the system. The constraint method here is mostly in turning it into Vesper.
2. Vesper is the primary "General Power" stat, it's also used to make stuff, but crucially it's also a way to power level a character to access more of the game content for that character. Ducats provide mundane power, Vesper allows access to the higher _narrative_ power.
3. Fame is the primary "Permanent Power" stat, it cements, slowly, orders into narrow character builds that are highly powerful, but ideally at only a narrow set of things.