
# (from the basics wrt the GM's role) The GM

The GM's role is similar to other games, and indeed follows all the general rules and advice of whatever underlying system is in use (if not the one provided by _Infinite Dungeon itself_). Additionally, the GM is responsible for managing the total amount of resources in the system. [[03. Vesper, Ducats, and Fame|Vesper, Ducats, and Fame]] are all "Inflationary" resources, which naturally reduce in value over time; this involves a little more bookkeeping than a typical game, but the result is much better control over the powerlevel of the game, including the ability to both _overpower_ players when you need to, and _depowering_ players after, all by managing the control of the various resources.
## (from the basics wrt orders/chargen) For the GM

Let's look at the broader scenario. In a long-running campaign, especially one that operates on a drop-in/drop-out "West Marches" style of play as is intended by _Infinite Dungeon_, it is likely that you will have at least as many Orders as there are players, if not more. Each order is self-contained, but since they are also likely to be highly specialized, you will find your players gaining lots of power quickly. Traits are designed through negotiation, and an important thing to manage is the inflating cost-to-use the traits players build; this can help reign in the power of any new trait. However, your characters should also be built using their own Orders, and those Orders are _built out of the same traits_ that the players use, and most creation you do should come with a commensurate increase in the amount of resources you give players. This is fleshed out in more detail in the GM's Manual.


# from 02 traits



Activation cost is an anti-cheese mechanism, so the GM should generally try to reduce it to the smallest acceptable value. Fame spent on traits is not destroyed, it returns to the GM's account, and is then used to prepare more and/or higher difficulty content.