# AAR

I ended up having Nehkbel run away, because I want to have him come around in a future campaign. I only cast Power Word: Pain as a parting shot. I think I'm going to have an adventure where Nehkbel shows up in ID, as usual, aligning himself with power. Maybe MW has cured his vulture-form and now he's up to no good.

D3's player had to deal with another issue, and so had to leave for the Anhubet fight, so I had to rebalance on the fly since he represents a lot of tanking potential for the party. We ended up leaving it at the top of the turn order after they'd dispatched the mooks and got onto the boss.

I will say, I'm pretty bad at D&D combat. I think this makes sense as I have a lot of trouble context switching between monsters. I sort of like an approach that's more of a 'one big monster with lots of hitpoints and special abilities' -- to that end maybe trying to build the [[Loading Docks]] encounter this way makes sense? Instead of individual monsters with individual stats, have the monsters die in a few hits but have them spawn at a cost of damage from the room?

I actually kind of like that, you don't fight monsters, you fight the encounter, you fight the room. The room has some hit die, and you spend those hit die on creatures, and you have those creatures die when it's _narratively_ appropriate, so you can basically let your players mow through enemies when you want, but only track a single dice pool. Similarly, you can act with legendary actions on player turns exclusively, but at some _health cost_. So you might spawn a few targets for the players, the targets die whenever it makes sense for them to die, after big damage or a cool spell or whatever. It also makes stating the room independent of it's theme. You have room attacks, minion spawns, environmental hazards, etc, then you balance a room absent theme, then apply theme to the room as needed. Some themes might be easier to use, but the concept is generic.

In this model the LD fight might be something like:

1d8 -> spawn a loader that dies if hit at any level beyond a graze (natural <2stdev on the damage die)
3d6 -> spawn a defender which dies in three good hits
Xd6 -> for the X + `k` loaders and/or defenders of your choosing, if it's within melee a player, it rolls +5 to hit, 1d6 damage; for every defender, it uses it's movement to try to make a +7 to hit, 2d6 + 2 damage attack against anything you like.

The room maybe has 30d6 hit die, so on average this encounter will let you attack with a bunch of creatures and have those creatures crumple under your attacks, your heavies are needed to deal with the 'tough' defenders. You can add back ACs and special moves as you need to, but keep it extremely modular.



```RpgManager4
id: 
  type: "session"
  campaign: "Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md"
  parent: "Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md"
  positionInParent: 4
tasks: []
data: 
  sessiondate: "2025-05-15"
```

[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md|]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S3 - I'm just a businessman, eh?/Scenes/Fight Nehkbel.md|]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S3 - I'm just a businessman, eh?/Scenes/Regroup after a long rest.md|]]
[[Fight DQ]]
[[Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/02. Sessions/01. Prologue - S3 - I'm just a businessman, eh?/Scenes/Fight Anubhet.md|]]