Read Aloud

> The opening theme song plays and we see a "Previously on I N F I N I T E D U N G E O N"
>  
> A band of the sort arrive at the PF, it's early spring, and we see them from a distance, as if we're a bird resting on a tree near the PF. We see them set off to go to Matilda's, we see them set off to the strange doorway. It's been a few months now, it's June in Upper Carpathia. Not hot yet, but warm and breezy. You can almost smell the Hospitable Sea on the air, though it being a few hundred kilometers away, it's probably just your imagination.
> 
> We see another band of the sort arrive, much like the previous. The old warrant has had explicit directions to the so called "Machineworks." Many parties have adventured to it, few have returned, and none unchanged. The PF is bustling with adventurers, and work is plentiful. The potion rack is half empty, the smell of beer and tall tales overwhelms you.
> 
> Across from the PF a new building has sprouted up, only perhaps 3x5m, it houses a gruff looking man and his collection of weapons and traps. The man is clearly mundane, likely from the local village. He has a sign above the small shed: "WILL PAY FOR QUARRY, INQUIRE WITHIN". The sign is written in Greek, the common language of the Mundane.
>
> A few other notices have popped up. Some villager from Isk reports that there was a strange goings on near an old hillfort to the northwest. Another reports sighting a previously absent windmill in the middle of a field south of the village. No one is sure how it got there.


- Hillfort encounter is an incursion of a new kind of creature (Goblins + 1 Hobgoblin) which took over an old Roman encampment in the hills. Opportunities to find some old SPQR stuff here.
	- Entrance is guarded by a squad of goblins, can be bypassed with stealth or distraction, but they attack non-goblins on sight. A secret entrance around the back where the wall has rotted.
	- Once inside, there are a few areas where the other goblins reside. These can be dispatched stealthily, attacked en masse, or tricked by inciting some kind of conflict between the various squads.
	- Upon defeating all the goblins in the encampment, as the party begins to loot, the leader returns with his expedition, finding the destruction and/or chaos, he attacks the party.
	- When the final enemies are defeated, the players loot the site, and find a number of SPQR artifacts and at least one copy of [[Burning Questions]].
- Windmill encounter is a ghostly windmill, it's got ghosts in it.
	- The windmill is fully sealed, but there are grain windows about halfway up the 20m tall structure.
		- Players can climb, or try to bash their way in.
	- The fields around the windmill seem healthy, until you get within about 30m of the mill itself, where the air gets unnaturally cold and the crops seem to exhibit signs of frost.
	- Once inside, there are always three levels. The entry level is where-ever they entered, the lower level is below that (either a basement or first floor), and the upper level is above it.
	- The upper level is magically locked, it can be unlocked by going to the basement level.
	- The lower level contains a number of ghostly millworkers dealing with the millworks. There is a spectral flow of grain into the mill, it keeps getting jammed up.
		- If the players attempt to destroy the mill, show hostility to the ghosts, or otherwise act antisocial, they are attacked by a hard encounter with ghosts.
		- The players can alternatively try to help the ghosts process the grain somehow. If they do, the ghosts dissipate and the sound of an unlocking door is heard.
	- The upper level contains a spectre of a farmer who's fields were burnt by raiders. He is hostile to the adventurers either for killing his farm hands; or for freeing his slaves (depending on whether the players were hostile or helpful), and speaks in a rural or genteel southern accent as appropriate.
	- Upon victory, the players find quite a bit of vesper, enough to fill them up, and some fame items.


---

- Plans:
	- Get them on the Springarden quest
	- Prep two 5RDs for the world, a cave encounter and a ruin site probably?
	- Firm up the hexcrawl rules
	- Aim to point them at [[Ynn]].
	- Depthcrawl Journal creation stuff
	- Cold open is Nik collecting the things from the previous adventurers, forgot to do that last time

The overarching aim is to get to the point on the 5e side where I can introduce the [["On Rotated Realities"|Rotated Realities]] concept, which will drive the system jumping.

I want to maintain a stock of 2-3 5RDs prepped so I have some options and am set up if they visit a couple sites. I can keep Heliana's available for monster hunting purposes. I need to solidify the Hexcrawl procedure and get any condition-stuff automated, which means I need to figure out how to store arbitrary data on the 5e sheet (or elsewhere, IDK)

Once I've got that stood up, then I can introduce the system-jumping mechanic. There'll be a post on the signboard that leads to another strangely-located doorway. When the PCs enter, they find themselves arriving on the far side transformed; creating new characters in the target system. The adventure hook will state the total reward for completing the adventure. These adventures add more Vesper/Ducats to the system (they aren't drawn from the main pool), so doing, e.g., the Dragonbane Starter adventure might net out 9L of Vesper and 5000d, regardless of how many people do it, then my total vesper in the system is ~24L and 20kd. Characters entering the world might be able to bring some money/items/stuff with them, and the characters they create stay 'local' to that world.

I'll have these be separate worlds in Foundry and I can have more than one on the same system later. e.g., this is the 'dragonbane' world at `db.infinite-dungeon.goml.games` and then a `5e.infinite-dungeon.goml.games`, etc. Later if I have multiple distinct worlds under the same system, then I can have them named underneath.

Plot-wise, the MWDDD is attempting to create his own Ynn or Stygian Library out of this reality by inducing a 'rotation' which he, ostensibly, will quiesce when he has achieved his goal; he has already succeeded in inducing the initial rotation, which has led to much of the (otherwise unintentional) chaos that created all the weird creatures invading the otherwise normal(ish) human world. As the rotation proceeds, the confusion and chaos gets worse, and other realities start to co-align with the main one, resulting in doorways to these other realities. The job of the adventurers is to:

1. Discover all this through lore and exploration
2. Investigate the various realities that start to coalign with our own as our reality precesses through others
3. Find a way to halt the rotation and return reality to some sense of stability

The MWDDD isn't so much an evil guy as just a guy with an agenda and no sense or concern for who his agenda will impact. He views most people as expendable resources.

# Chargen stuff

- 5e iron roll doesn't scale with FoundryVTT, spells are tricky as well.
- New system: You can choose from the following:
	- 33 point buy. This tells me "I want this character to stick around for a while", you will be slightly more powerful than most of the party. These characters cannot benefit from Order-specific chargen, you get to build a 'normal' D&D character. As orders grow and change, this will stop being as powerful. You start with 0m of Fame.
	- 27 point buy OR a standard 27 point array OR 4d6k3 "Standard" roll: This tells me "I want this character to stick around, but I'm not finely crafting them exactly how I like." Similar to the 33p buy, you'll be more powerful at first, less powerful later on. You start with 15m of fame.
	- Hard Iron Roll, 3d6 in order, choose class, roll background/other items: You are a delightful maniac and you start with 60m of fame.
	- **ALL** Character *MUST* use only PHB or core expansion material (Mordkainens, Volo's, Xanthar, etc). If you want to use other Homebrew, you've gotta pay for it with fame. Send it over, I'll review it, and we'll figure out how to introduce it in a way I can digest.
	- **To be clear** -- the primary purpose of the Fame gating is to manage how much homebrew I have to absorb at a time, I'm open to playing with almost any homebrew, even unbelievably broken homebrew, but I need to be able to accommodate it and balance it, and that takes time.
- You'll still get Fame as you play, we'll just have to come up with other uses for it if you aren't spending it on your order. Fame objects are all worth money as well, maybe we use fame for the occasional narrative boon, idk.
- The game is still likely to be lethal, so I wouldn't spend many hours on backstory; you are like everyone else, an outcast from Mundane Society in some way, shape, or form; your backstory is largely unimportant, your forestory is what we're interested in.
- Starting Fame is only granted "Upon Honorable Death" UHD occurs when the death is neither GM bullshit (as in the end of the S0 where someone showed up and PWK'd the remaining chars), or Player bullshit ("I walk off a cliff on purpose to kill this character"). It's never bullshit if it's funny.

**tl;dr** -- if you want to just play D&D with your buds, roll a usual character, stick to the core WOTC stuff, and don't afraid. If you want to do more, read the above more thoroughly.

You should roll up said character between now and next session on D&D Beyond or by hand, I don't care which, once you've got it let me know and I'll open up the server so you can go get it imported. If it doesn't work right away, just leave the URL for me to import. D&D Beyond supports, afaik, all of the above except for Iron Rolls.

Come to the session with some ideas about longer term projects; I don't have any specific plans for the session, so it will be largely player guided. We can do some hexcrawling, there are some quests to pursue, but we're firmly in the 'get settled in the campaign' stage of things.

```RpgManager4
id: 
  type: "session"
  campaign: "Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md"
  parent: "Campaigns/Infinite Dungeon/Infinite Dungeon.md"
  positionInParent: 7
tasks: 
  - id: "5fa624db-993d-40ad-87e0-2675b5539b2a"
    priority: 1
    name: "Complete Session"
    description: "Complete Session 02. Tower of the Mad Wizard - S02 - TBD"
    type: "creation"
    status: "proposed"
```


