Much of your character's time in _Infinite Dungeon_ will be spent in 'downtime', a nebulous space usually lost to a few die rolls and maybe an occasional interrupting ambush encounter. In _Infinite Dungeon_, this time is used to advance _Projects_, perform _Maintenance_, or _Earn Wages_
# Projects

Projects are similar to traits, except they become permanent in the world and can be used by other characters. Property upon character death may pass to the ownership of other characters -- NPC or PC -- or for sufficiently famous orders, another member of said order may come to take over administration of the property, especially in the case of real property. E.g., if your religious order constructs a Church somewhere, then your character dies, another member of your order may be generated by the GM and sent 'by the diocese' to run the church.

Every project has these things:

1. A set of nonmaterial requirements, measured in Fame, perhaps with specific approvals not facilitated by your current level of fame. E.g., you must get the local magistrate's permission to build a road through multiple otherwise uncontrolled hexes.
2. A set of material costs, measured in Vesper and Ducats.
3. A table of skills and relevant DCs that allow progress, and how many points-past-the-DC you must accrue to complete the task.
	1. When you succeed a skill check, points-past is calculated as `Roll Value + Modifiers - DC`, that number is _subtracted from the current points-past-the-DC_, even if it is negative (failing results in _more_ work to be done). Critical failure/success counts double (so a DC15 check where you roll a 20 and have a +5 modifier is `20 + 5 - 15 = 10` points normally, since it's a crit, it's `20`.)
4. An effect that will occur when you finish the project.

For an example, let's say you want to build a facility to store large amounts of Vesper safely, so you can pursue larger projects. You already own some property and no one can prevent you from proceeding, so you've implicitly passed any non-material fame requirements. You want to be able to store, say, 120L of Vesper. 120L of Vesper has an explosive potential of `(24*8)d6 ~ 672` damage in `5e` terms, so your DM decides you need to complete the following steps:

1. Buy 1000d and 100mL worth of materials -- Tanks, Lumber, Tools, Fasteners, etc.
2. Earn 50 points past a DC12 Intelligence (or relevant skill) check to design the structure.
3. Do 100 points past a DC15 skill check after passing the previous check against Strength, Dex, or relevant skill check (e.g., athletics).

Accomplishing all this will get you a facility with the following features:

1. A d10 condition die that must be rolled every session.
2. When the die degrades, there is a chance for containment failure, roll a d20, on a 1, a containment breach occurs. If the die is a d10, you lose one of the 6 tanks-worth of Vesper, vented to atmosphere. If it's a d8, lose two, if it's a d6, lose three, if it's a d4, lose everything, and roll a second d20, on a 1, it all explodes, potentially damaging nearby surroundings.
3. The facility can otherwise store up to 120L of Vesper across 6 tanks.

Projects like these can have arbitrary effects, work with your GM as you would on any [trait](02.%20Orders.md#Traits), identify what you want, GM will set costs.

Working on a project takes 4 hours for a skill check if you have proficiency, 2h if you have expertise, and 8h otherwise. When you're working on a project, you tax your provisions more, roll them at dire straights.

## Help

Other players can _Help_ with a project, lending their money, vesper, or talents. They may perform skill checks instead of or in addition to other skill checks, but time is finite, and they must spend their downtime doing this instead of other things.
## Standard

Some projects may be standardized. This will depend on your campaign, but should generally include things like:

1. Making more projectiles/ammo, allowing a skill check to improve an [Ammo Die](Ammo%20Die).
2. Making potions, scribing scrolls, or otherwise preparing consumables.

These will have standardized material costs, requirements, skill tables, and effects. You should standardize any common project at your table, and once standardized you should generally try not to change it, though your GM may need to make tweaks depending on the overall power level of the game.

# Maintenance

Maintenance comes in many forms. There are broadly two kinds of maintenance work.
## Personal

Personal maintenance includes:

- Maintenance of one's currently equipped and managed gear, allowing an attempt to improve one's [08. Condition Die](08.%20Condition%20Die.md).
- Hunting/Gathering of local food sources to attempt to improve one's [Provisions Die](Provisions%20Die)

These tasks take 4 hours each. Start with a relevant check, on a failure, the player gets 1 chance to roll their relevant die, and on a max value it improves to the next rank die. If they succeed the check, they get two chances, if they crit succeed, they get 4, if they crit fail, they get none. If no such relevant check exists within your system, a stat check can replace it, if no such check exists, roll a luck die against the character's level.
## Property

Property maintenance is more arbitrary. It requires you to be co-located with the property in question (e.g., if you've built a house, you need to be nearby to work on it), it otherwise proceeds much like personal maintenance. Each item of Personal Property has an associated condition die. You make a relevant check to the maintenance you're doing, and get some chances to upgrade the die. Benefits of the property are generally conditional based on the size of the relevant die, so maintenance can improve the benefits they give you.
# Earn Wages

Any character in a friendly town who is not wanted by any local authorities can find odd jobs and wage work in town. They perform a relevant skill check, and based on the result are awarded some amount of Ducats or Vesper according to the below table:

```ad-warning
Numbers and formulae likely to change.
```

| Check        | Ducats                   | Vesper |
| ------------ | ------------------------ | ------ |
| Crit Fail    | 2d20d1 * char level      | 0      |
| Fail         | 1d20 * char level        | 2d20d1 |
| Success      | 2d20k1 * char level      | 1d20   |
| Crit Success | 2d20k1 \* char level * 2 | 2d20k1 |
When you work for wages, you specify in advance how you'd prefer to be paid. When you work for wages, your boss for the day pays for your meal and gives you a place to crash, so you don't need to roll your provisions die.
