In [[Upper Carpathia]], and more generally in [[Eret]], a unique structure has developed to accommodate some -- quite justified -- cultural fears of the so-called [Mundane](../03.%20Appendices/G%20-%20Glossary.html#Mundane) people of the world. The majority of the world maintains a healthy fear of ["The Sort"](../03.%20Appendices/G%20-%20Glossary.html#The%20Sort) as they are both extremely useful as a source of protection, income, and problem resolution, but also extremely dangerous to have around. The essential risk of using any of the Sort to resolve a problem is that their resolution is almost certainly going to include the use of powerful magic and advanced techniques which cause collateral damage. So called "[Sordid Plague](../03.%20Appendices/G%20-%20Glossary.html#Sordid%20Plague)" can occur when places are lax with these conditions as a rule, or when adventurers concentrate too much in a small region, exhausting the need and in the resulting vacuum a new, intra-party melee naturally appears as infighting over who deserves credit for which deeds grows in the dearth of new ones to be done. Fireballs burn everything, not just their intended targets. It's not like the Sort mean to do this, it's just physics, to some extent. Power corrupts, and the Sort are not immune to it.  The Sort and the Mundane both are inclined to mitigate this problem; as the wanton destruction generally results in everyone losing out on work.

To combat this, you have to build something wider than a traditional motte-and-bailey; So the system of Inns and Innkeeps naturally developed. It works like this. Villages of Mundane folks settle somewhere, the Sort generally try to give them a wide berth. It's not unheard of to go to an actual Mundane village if you're one of the Sort, but it's understood that you're expected to be deferential, not show any particular power, hands off. Most of the Sort will respect this even in a pitched battle. You step foot within a league or so of a Mundane village, you quit fighting and maybe you have a standoff but you don't break the rule.

Several leagues outside of every village that wants to avail itself of help from the Sort, they build an Inn. The bravest villager works as an Innkeep. They are richly rewarded with first dibs at the business of running and adventuring Inn. They are required by custom to maintain some sort of record of tasks and rumors local to the area, to provide lodging and board to passing adventurers, and generally to act as a liaison between the Mundane and the Sort.

Over time, other services from the local village might pop up near the Inn, staffed by the second, third, fourth, &c bravest individuals from the local village. As time goes on, these two distinct settlements form, grow, and eventually merge into cities, where the divide may start to blur. The distinctions are still understood -- avoid fighting in the mundane parts of the city, but rarely is this truly enforced equitably, so many poorer areas might find themselves less able to avail themselves of the cultural taboo.

The folks who run these Inns tend to be pretty colorful, often borderline of the Sort themselves.

These Inns dot the landscape, and form a sort of gossip network.

Inns are always a safe place to rest, assuming you've vetted the staff. You trust the staff, right?

